1,000
250
1,000

TL
4
3
4
4
3
4
4
4
4
3
4
4
4
4
3
4

Observation Suite: All drones are wired for basic camera
and sound, but this suite contains a full-spectrum
UV/IR visual package, remote sound sensors, and
radiation/chemical detectors. The drone can focus
on conversations or facial expressions from up to
2 kilometers away and can operate even in the
complete absence of visible light.
Racing Gravitics: The drone is tuned for extra speed. Its
flight endurance is halved, but it can now move
up to 60 meters per combat round and fly at up to
200 kph out of combat.
Reinforced Structure: The drone is equipped with
heavier plating and a sturdier internal frame. Its
hit points are increased by 50%, rounded up.
Sensor Transparency: The drone is sheathed in anti-radar composites. Ordinary sensors will not detect it
at observation range, and high-end military sensors can spot it only on an Int/Program check at
difficulty 9.
Stationkeeping: The drone does not need to be constantly controlled; when the operator does not
spend a Main Action to pilot it, it simply remains
stationary. If equipped with an Observation Suite,
it can ping the operator if any anomalous reading
is obtained.
Suicide Charge: The drone is loaded with a demo charge
as per page 69. The operator can trigger it as an
attack, but unless they can move the drone in by
surprise, the approach will always give onlookers
a chance to spot it before it gets within range.
Weapon Fitting: The drone can be mounted with 1
encumbrance worth of ranged weaponry, which
must be purchased separately. This fitting may be
taken more than once to mount more weapons
or heavier weapons. The weapon requires one or
more ammo units to feed it.

82• CYBERWARE

CYBERWARE
Postech medical science and neural interface technology are sophisticated enough to meld metal and flesh
into a coherent whole. The creation of advanced cyberware is not beyond the theoretical capability of TL4
societies, and pretech worlds can produce cyberware
of such sophistication as to blur the lines between organism and artifice.
Yet cyberware is rarely available on most worlds,
even those with the nominal technology level to support it. The advantages that cyberware can give a user
are great, but the cost of building, fitting, and implanting these devices is huge compared to simply buying a
handheld device to do the same function. There are few
buyers for a 15,000 credit ghost talker implant when a
compad retails for a hundred credits.
The market that does exist is largely for those few
elite operatives and dignitaries who are willing to pay
exorbitant sums for the smallest advantage. Most cyberware is custom-built for its users, and it can be an
adventure in itself to find a lab capable of manufacturing an augmentation and successfully implanting
it. Some worlds have industrialized the production of
cyberware, however, making it much cheaper and in
much wider circulation. Even then, these worlds rarely
export much cyberware due to the heavy infrastructure
necessary to fit and implant the wares. Those who want
the tech will have to find such planets and do their own
negotiations there.
Aside from the difficulties of cost and scarcity,
cyberware also taxes the wearer’s body. Each piece of
cyberware comes with a System Strain cost as described
on page 32, permanently adding that many points of
System Strain to the user’s total. These points can never
be lost unless the system is surgically removed. This
permanent System Strain decreases the amount of
psionic healing a character can sustain and can limit
the effectiveness of healing and stimulant drugs.
Some cyberware has an activation cost in System
Strain. If a cost would push the character’s System
Strain above their Constitution score, they cannot
trigger the cyberware; their body just can’t handle the
strain until it has had time to recover.
Adrenal Suppression Pump: These endocrine pumps
neutralize numerous brain chemicals in the user
when activated while exciting the user’s perceptual centers. This combination produces a cold,
dispassionate situational awareness that grants
the user +2 on initiative rolls when the system is
engaged. Most systems have built-in safety overrides to prevent psychological addiction and brain
damage, allowing the unit to be used for no more
than an hour each day. The user takes a -2 penalty
on all social skill checks while the unit is active,
and it requires five rounds to toggle it.

Bioadaptation Augments: These additional synthetic
organs and filters allow the bearer to survive in
thin-atmosphere conditions, as well as tolerate
temperatures ranging from Antarctic chill to
heat sufficient to boil water. They can also eat a
wide range of native life forms for sustenance; no
normal planet’s native biology is ever considered
immiscible for consumption.
Body Arsenal Array: Some personnel need to be armed
at all times without giving any indication of such.
Improvised weaponry and conventional holdout
weapons are useful enough against soft targets,
but disabling a target in powered armor requires
more. The details of the array vary from user to
user, but usually act as advanced medium weapons
that can be used with either Punch or Stab skills
and at least one integral energy projector equal
to a laser rifle, one that must be powered by an
insertable type A power cell. Retracted body arsenals can be detected only by a medical examination.
Body Sculpting: Not so much a single implant as a series of complex surgeries, body sculpting is available on many TL4 worlds with fairly advanced
medical services. After a week of alterations and
treatments a subject’s external appearance can be
set within any human or near-human range, in-

CYBERWARE •83
Cyberware
Adrenal Suppression Pump
Bioadaptation Augments
Body Arsenal Array
Body Sculpting
Dermal Armor
Drone Control Link
Eelskin Capacitor Mesh
Gecko Anchors
Ghost Talker Transceiver
Holdout Cavity
Holoskin Emitters
Identity Submersion Trigger
Immunofiltration System
Induced Coma Trigger
Neurointruder Alert
Panspectral Optics
Pressure Sheathing
Prosthetic Limb
Revenant Wiring
Slowtime Window
Stabilization Overrides
Tagger Nanites
Toxin Injector
Twitchlock Actuators

Cost
30,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
20,000
20,000
25,000
15,000
15,000
10,000
15,000
25,000
25,000
20,000
50,000
15,000
15,000
2,500
50,000
30,000
25,000
15,000
20,000
30,000

Strain
1
1
1
1
2
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
2
1
1
1
1
1
3
2
2
1
2
2

TL
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
5
4
4
4
5
5
4
4
4
4

cluding full retinal and fingerprint matching to a
desired target. A TL5 version of this treatment
that costs ten times as much can involve extensive DNA reprogramming to change the subject
at a genetic level, making their alterations heritable and allowing female-targeted shapes to bear
offspring. This TL5 treatment is not reversible,
and any further major alterations to the subject
require further permanent System Strain.
Dermal Armor: A fine subcutaneous reinforcement
mesh provides significant protection against impacts and cuts while remaining imperceptible to
anything short of a medical examination. Someone with the implant has AC 16 and is immune
to Shock damage inflicted by primitive melee
weapons. A TL5 version of this implant that costs
five times as much grants even more protection,
rendering the subject wholly immune to primitive
weapons as if they were wearing powered armor.
Drone Control Link: Most often found among military
bot wranglers, civilians can also get a drone control link implanted to simplify the remote piloting
of drones and other robotic units.
Users of a link can issue commands to a drone
as a Move action instead of a Main Action. A

Eliminates emotion and improves initiative
Survive near-habitable planetary conditions
Provides retractable body weaponry
Complete external physical reconstruction
AC 16, immune to primitive weapon Shock
Allows easier remote control of drones
Allows bare-handed hacking and electrical shocks
Can climb sheer surfaces as if they were flat
Integral compad with audiovisual transmission
Shielded body cavity for holdout storage
Creates a hologram around the user
Allows a false identity to be perfectly assumed
Immune to almost all diseases and poisons
Feigns death and halts bodily processes for up to two weeks
Grants +3 to save vs. telepathy, alerts of intrusion
Integral low-light and thermal vision
Integral emergency vacc suit
Replaces a limb lost to misadventure
Keeps the user fighting even after they’re dead
Prevents surprise and speeds up the user’s cogitation
Automatically stabilizes a mortally-wounded user
Lets the user tag others with tracking nanites
Allows surprise injection of lethal or dazing toxins
Allows brief moments of hyper-precise accuracy
single drone can only receive one command per
round, however.
Aside from this ease of command, someone
with an implanted rig can “look” through a piloted
drone’s sensors as an Instant action, and a drone
is never considered to be out of control even if
the pilot doesn’t spend an action controlling it. A
link can maintain a connection with one drone at
a time, plus the user’s Program skill.
Eelskin Capacitor Mesh: A hair-fine mesh of almost imperceptible wiring along the user’s palms and fingers allow them to trigger brief, controlled bursts
of electrical energy at targets within five meters.
As an Instant action it adds 2d4 non-lethal damage
to a successful Punch attack. In its intended use, it
also allows the user to override and disable most
electronic locks and security systems with a successful Sneak or Fix skill check. Both triggering a
burst and hacking a security system tax the user’s
biology; one System Strain point is gained with
each attack or skill check.
Gecko Anchors: Miniaturized gravitic manipulators are
embedded in the subject’s hands and feet as part
of this complex surgery. While they are too weak
to allow levitation or damping fall damage, they

84• CYBERWARE
can twist localized gravity around those limbs to
anchor the subject to the nearest surface capable
of bearing their weight. As a result, the user can
freely run or climb up or down sheer surfaces at
their normal movement rate, carrying no more
than their normal maximum encumbrance.
Ghost Talker Transceiver: Some people simply cannot
afford to be out of contact at any time, under any
circumstances. Those people find use for the microfine web of radio wiring and optical augmentation that make up the ghost talker. These units
act as a built-in compad for the user and allow
for reception and transmission of audio and visual
recordings, the latter playing in an inset window
in the user’s field of vision. If the unit is operating
outside of a standard comm grid, it has a transmission range of twenty kilometers and a reception range of one hundred. Ghost talker users can
transmit basic visual diagrams and images to each
other, as well as optical recordings.
Holdout Cavity: Usually implanted somewhere in the
torso, a holdout cavity is a small recess shaped
into the wearer’s body and designed to be overlooked by most standard forms of medical or security scanning. It automatically defeats a security
inspection that uses less than TL4 scanners, and
even advanced tech requires careful personal inspection to have a chance of revealing it. The cavity can hold an object up to the size of a pistol and
is opened and shut by the user’s mental command.
Holoskin Emitter: Multiple holographic emitters are implanted on the user, allowing them to alter their
external appearance to match anything of their
approximate size and dimensions, including other people. Shifting appearances is a Main Action,
and the user can’t shift to an appearance that isn’t
in the cyberware’s shape library. The library is vast
and contains “generic” examples of numerous human-sized objects and people, but mimicking a
specific other person requires at least five minutes
of close examination. The holograms projected
by the emitters are good, but imperfect; anyone
who closely examines the user will be able to tell
that something is artificial about their appearance,
and touch instantly confirms any suspicions. The
emitters can fake clothing and can produce sounds
to complement the illusion or modify the user’s
voice, if records of the true subject are available.
The disguise lasts until the user dies or ends it.
Identity Submersion Trigger: This cyberware involves
micronized neural stimulation technology which
is imperceptible to anything short of TL5 medical
scanning or TL4 surgical examination of the subject’s brain tissue. When active, the IST allows the
subject to adopt a secondary persona, complete
with a library of manufactured memories. So long
as the IST is active, the subject will honestly and
completely believe himself to be the secondary

persona, a conviction that cannot be penetrated by
telepathy or TL4 methods of interrogation. The
persona can be activated at the user’s discretion,
but it only deactivates on a preset trigger, leaving
the subject in full possession of all memories experienced. The trigger can be any perceptible stimulus: a particular time, the sight of a specific person,
a code phrase, or any other sign, and it may be
changed by the user each time they activate the
cyberware. Many ISTs are also implanted with a
“master key” that will automatically deactivate the
triggered identity.
Immunofiltration Systems: This broad-spectrum scrub
system carefully identifies and contains toxic substances introduced into the user’s system. Whenever the subject would normally have to make a
saving throw to resist some disease or toxin, they
may instead gain one System Strain to automatically succeed on the save. Most of these systems
are calibrated to automatically filter any toxins
or chemicals in standard use by police or military
forces in the sector, but if presented with a special biowarfare toxin, the filters are less effective.
In such cases, the most it can do is either grant a
second saving throw if the first is failed, or grant
a single saving throw if none is normally allowed.
Induced Coma Trigger: A series of implants are wired
to the user’s brain stem, allowing them to trigger
an induced therapeutic coma at a mental command. The user appears dead to anything short
of a medical inspection, and has no need of respiration, food, or water while the coma is in effect.
The user does not heal while in a coma, but any
diseases or poisons also halt progression. The user
determines how long the coma is to last before
triggering it, and is unconscious for its duration.
A character can survive in a coma up to two weeks
before needing to regain consciousness for as long
as they were in the coma.
Neurointruder Alert: While somewhat primitive by
pretech standards, this TL5 cybernetic implant
allows the wearer to gain a +3 bonus on all saving
throws to resist telepathic intrusion. Even if such
a save is failed, the user will be aware that they
are under telepathic assault, though some forms of
mental control may not allow them to say as much
until after the influence is ended. The warning
does not indicate the source of the influence.
Panspectral Optics: Ocular adjustments to the wearer
allow them to see clearly at any light level short of
perfect darkness, in addition to giving them thermal vision that can easily distinguish shapes and
distance even in the total absence of light. Dangerous radiation and lasers tuned outside the range
of visible light are also visible to the user. Nearby
radio transmissions can be seen as if they were
visual flares of color. The system cannot translate
these transmissions, only alert the user to them.

CYBERWARE •85
Pressure Sheathing: Occasionally purchased by workers in hard vacuum or other hostile environments,
pressure sheathing integrates an ultrathin pressure membrane with the user’s dermis and emergency film sealants that trigger at the user’s mental
command. The pressure sheathing serves as an
emergency vacc suit with an integral oxygen supply and temperature regulators that can sustain
them for up to thirty minutes. A pressure sheath
needs 48 hours to regain structural integrity and
power after triggering. A pressure sheath can be
detected only by a close medical examination.
Prosthetic Limb: Hands, feet, arms, legs, eyes, and
numerous internal organs can be replicated by
postech medical science. These prosthetics can
provide a good approximation of the sense of
touch, and are usually impossible to distinguish
from ordinary limbs without close inspection.
Pretech-level worlds tend to prefer actually regenerating lost limbs, but those with access only
to ordinary frontier levels of tech have reason to
be grateful to prosthetics.
Revenant Wiring: One of the more grotesque results of
late pretech augmentation research, revenant wiring permeates the user’s body with a web of supplementary limb actuators and sensor clusters. In
combat, the user may designate up to a half-dozen
targets to the system’s braked micro-AI. If the user
goes unconscious or is killed, the micro-AI will
engage the limb actuators to keep fighting, even
if the user is nothing more than a ragged mass
of mangled tissue. The micro-AI is not brilliant,
but it is capable of negotiating most terrain and
dealing with physical impediments to killing the
designated targets. The actuators have power to
keep operating for 3d4 rounds, or until the wearer takes 25 more hit points of damage, whichever comes first. The stress produced by revenant
wiring makes it much more difficult to revive a
downed user with Lazarus patches or biopsionics;
all revivification chances are half normal.
Slowtime Window: A piece of cutting-edge pretech cyberware, the slowtime window was installed in
crisis responders and others reliant on split-second decision making. When engaged, the implants
accelerate the user’s cogitation speed by more than
three thousand percent. While there is no corresponding acceleration of the user’s physical reflexes, they have time to process the situation and take
in its details. A person who triggers a slowtime
window cannot be surprised; they always roll initiative as normal no matter how unexpected the
attacker. This brain acceleration is highly stressful
on the tissues, however, and one point of System
Strain is gained each time it is engaged.

Stabilization Overrides: An intricate interweaving of
microcapillaries and backup organs is implanted
in the subject’s torso and spinal column. These
overrides can stabilize the user when severe physical trauma would otherwise kill them. A user reduced to 0 hit points is automatically stabilized,
as if a Lazarus patch had been successfully applied
to them, assuming that a patch could have saved
them. Stabilization overrides tend to interfere
with the ordinary operation of the user’s organs,
