however, and the wearer’s Constitution modifier
is lowered by 1, with all the attendant consequences in loss of maximum hit points.
Tagger Nanites: While true nanotechnology is beyond
the grasp of standard TL4 science, this cyber allows for the implantation of very simple nanofactories in the user, ones that exude a constant imperceptible “smart dust”. Objects the user touches
can be tagged by these nanites, which generate
more of their kind for up to 48 hours after tagging.
The dust then lays down a trail behind the tagged
object, one that is visible to the user or to someone using a properly-keyed tracer. Only counter-nanite measures can remove the dust, as ordinary bathing or scrubbing is insufficient. The dust
can be pinged by radio to announce its location
to anyone within five kilometers, but most users
prefer to leave the dust in passive mode, where it
is undetectable to most TL4 sensors. Tagging an
object adds one System Strain to the user.
Toxin Injector: The user’s canines or fingernails are
altered to allow for the injection of one of two
types of poison. If the user attempts to inject an
unsuspecting victim they are already touching, the
attempt is automatically successful. If the victim is
wary or in combat, they can only be affected if they
are unarmored and the user succeeds in a Punch
attack roll. On a success, the victim must make a
Physical saving throw at -2 or be incapacitated by
the poison, dying in 1d6 rounds or being incapacitated for 1d6 hours at the user’s discretion. Each
poison attack adds 2 System Strain to the user.
Twitchlock Actuators: Neural override fibers are woven into the user’s hands and arms and linked to a
perceptual modulator implanted at the base of the
user’s brain stem. When presented with a direct
exercise of hand-eye coordination, the twitchlock
can be engaged to produce superhuman accuracy
and precision. Any attack roll or skill check reliant
chiefly on manual dexterity or aim can be rerolled,
though the power surge inflicts two points of System Strain on the user. A given roll can only be rerolled once with this cyberware. While the twitchlock allows superhuman accuracy when engaged,
the overrides fuzz ordinary nerve impulses and
reduce the user’s Dexterity modifier by 1 when
active. Activating or deactivating the cyberware
requires a Main Action.

86• ARTIFACTS

ARTIFACTS
Pretech artifacts are some of the more precious loot
available from lost Mandate military bases, abandoned
colonies, desolate tomb worlds, and forgotten research
outposts. Most pretech on modern worlds was long
ago cannibalized for vital spare parts or destroyed by
the ravages of time and violence. The few pieces that
remain are almost always extremely valuable.
Very few pretech artifacts are bought or sold.
Some items are relatively common, having been ubiquitous enough to survive in large numbers or simple
enough to be produced by a few remaining modern
worlds. Most artifacts, however, are so rare that there
is no consistent market for them; an owner can charge
what they wish for a device.
Getting that price is a different matter. Few planetary governments allow private ownership of “dangerous pretech artifacts”, and it’s the government that
decides what constitutes danger. Most owners are rapidly visited by firm, polite agents with heavily-armed
backup and given a “fair price” for their find.
As a consequence, most trade in pretech artifacts
has to take place on the black market, or on worlds or
stations too lax to care about who might be bringing
in a portable black hole generator that just happens
to look like a Mandate child’s toy. Such venues rarely
provide much in the way of security or contract enforcement, and so trade has to take place amid grasping
guards, paranoid participants, and regular theft.
Pretech artifacts are more often traded privately
as rewards, mission payments, or exchanges between
owners. A PC who wants to obtain one of the artifacts
listed in this section will need to not only find someone
who will admit to possessing the gear, but also find out
what kind of favor they’re going to need to part with it.
Tens of thousands of credits can sometimes do the trick,
but most owners will prefer to wring the maximum
utility out of a capable adventurer’s interest in their
prized possessions.

Artifact Armor

Many types of pretech armor are so rare or useful that
they cannot normally be acquired on the open market.
Much like artifact weaponry, these artifact armors are
jealously held by those lucky enough to find them.
Executive Security Suit: This suit of stylish pretech
clothing can self-modify in one minute to appear
as any normal suit of clothing and grants AC 15
to the wearer. Originally designed for VIP protection, the executive security suit automatically
stabilizes a mortally-wounded wearer provided
they haven’t taken enough damage to make revival impossible. Like the majority of pretech artifact
armor, the suit is so light that it does not add to
the wearer’s encumbrance.

Ghost Mantle: Designed for use by elite infiltrators, a
ghost mantle can warp light around the wearer to
blur his or her outlines and coloring to match the
surroundings. The mantle can self-modify in one
minute to appear as any normal suit of clothing
and grants AC 15 to the wearer. When used in
stealth mode, it grants a +2 bonus to all Stealth-related skill checks. TL4 sensors and scanners cannot
detect the mantle as anything but ordinary cloth.
Polyplast Carapace: This variant form of assault suit
employs pretech deforming polymers to create
sealed joints and flexible armor plates that still
maintain rigidity under impact. A polyplast carapace is treated as an assault suit with AC 18, except
that it counts as only one item for encumbrance
and requires no practice to use correctly. Integral
kinetic absorption sinks allow the armor to function without the need for power cells.
Psitech Combat Suit: One of the rare psitech artifacts
originally designed for use by military combat
psychics, this snug-fitting armored undersuit
grants the wearer an AC of 16. Its special ability
functions only for psychics; it can allow the user
to reflexively fuel the suit’s defenses with their
own psychic reserves. As an Instant action, they
can Commit Effort for the day to negate up to
15 points of damage from in incoming source of
physical injury. Each time they do this, they must
make a Mental saving throw or the psychic conversion shock leaves them unable to use psionic
techniques until after the end of their next turn.
Stutterjump Suit: A modified version of the standard
deflector array, a stutterjump suit grants the wearer a limited form of teleportation through integral
psitech circuitry. As an Instant action, the wearer
can teleport to any location within one hundred
meters, provided they have an unobstructed line
of sight to it. The suit’s circuitry requires twelve
hours to recover enough for another jump. The
suit does not require power cells to function.
Titan Powered Armor: An enormously heavy suit of servo-actuated powered armor, Titan assault plate
was favored by pretech boarding parties and space
marines. It grants the wearer all the usual benefits
of storm armor, but has a base AC of 21 and subtracts 2 points of damage from every instance of
harm suffered by the wearer.
Tempest Assault Array: A modified version of the field
emitter panoply, the TAA has all the functionality
of the FEP but also does an automatic 1d6 damage to anyone who attacks the wearer in melee,
inflicting the damage after the attack is resolved.
The wearer is immune to Shock damage. Kinetic
sinks allow the TAA to function without the need
for power cells.

ARTIFACTS •87

Artifact Weaponry

While generic pretech weaponry is of superb quality
and manufacture, some pieces exceed even the customary excellence of the ancients. These “artifact” weapons are usually the product of short production runs
by master pretech craftsmen or individually-designed
masterpieces. Some pre-Scream manufacturers retain
fame even centuries later for the unique quality of their
workmanship.
Artifact weapons are almost never found on the
market. The few pieces that are found and offered for
sale are snapped up almost immediately by elite operatives and others who rely on the quality of their hardware to preserve their own lives. Most who have artifact weaponry have either found it in a long-abandoned
pretech cache, received it from a superior, or taken it
from the cold hands of a former owner. Selling such a
weapon tends to be equally difficult, with buyers few
and untrustworthy.
Absolution Armaments: A company specializing in energy weaponry, AA pioneered several techniques for
increasing the energy efficiency and penetrating
power of their armaments. AA laser weapons ignore particulate matter when shooting, and all AA
weapons gain +1 to hit and +2 damage.
Colonial Arms: An armaments company dating from
the First Wave of human colonization, Colonial
Arms was famous for the incredible durability

and versatility of their firearms. Their guns were
largely self-repairing from anything short of having pieces torn off, and their projectile weapons
automatically self-adjusted to fire whatever ammunition was available, in any environment from
hard vacuum to underwater operations. A Colonial Arms projectile or energy weapon also gains
a +1 bonus to hit and damage rolls.
Convergence Weaponry: Those weapons designed by
the transhuman hive-mind polity known as the
Convergence are almost always energy-based guns
found in sets of 2-5 matching weapons. Wielders
can nominate a target as an Instant action at the
start of each round; any attacks they make with
the weapon against that target get a +1 hit and
damage bonus for each wielder that targeted the
foe, including their own nomination.
Imperial Arms: Ornate and beautiful weapons created
shortly after the horror of the Scream, these arms
were developed by an unknown pocket empire
that somehow preserved a little of their pretech
manufacturing base. Their attempt to reimpose
order on the chaos around them appears to have
failed, but their legacy lingers in the scattered
weapons that remain from their far-flung armies.
An Imperial weapon grants its user a +1 bonus
to all hit and damage rolls, with projectile weapons having an unlimited supply of ammo. These
weapons always remain immaculately clean.

88• ARTIFACTS
Fiat Lux: This manufacturer specialized in laser and
plasma weaponry. Their products were largely
conventional in function, but the quality of craftsmanship was seldom surpassed. Fiat Lux weaponry grants +2 to hit rolls and damage.
Nightfall Combine: The exact nature of the Nightfall
Combine was unclear even before the Scream,
with rumors of alien xenotech manufacturing
techniques and esoteric psitech materials research.
The weapons produced by the Combine were
some of the finest ever developed by humanity.
They grant +3 to all hit and damage rolls.
Omnipresence, Ltd.: A pretech manufacturer who specialized in holdout weaponry, Omnipresence arms
are composed of special polymorphic nano-compounds that are capable of shifting shape in moments. Omnipresence weaponry can take a single
alternate shape of the same mass set during manufacture, usually a belt, necklace, or other seemingly innocuous object. When gripped and a short
keycode is spoken, the item instantly shifts forms,
containing whatever ammunition it was originally loaded with. Shifted Omnipresence weapons
cannot be detected by any postech means; even
a pretech scanner will only reveal that the object
is composed of complex nanites. Omnipresence
weapons grant +1 to hit and damage rolls.
PolyGaia Defense: Originally an organization of militant pan-planetary animists, PolyGaia armaments
function perfectly in almost any environment.
Projectile and energy weapons are also equipped
with integral monoblades, and can be used as advanced medium melee weapons without a need to
club the weapon. PolyGaia weaponry grants +1 to
hit and damage rolls.
SamaelTech: The Sons of Samael were one of the myriad peculiar religious and ideological groups that
flourished during the Second Wave of human
expansion. While their exact beliefs are unclear
at this distance, their surviving melee armament
is invariably superb. Monoblades, kinesis wraps,
and other such SamaelTech weaponry all have +1
to hit and +1 damage. Some SamaelTech weapons appear to be decorated with Christian iconography and advanced nanotech cutting surfaces.
These pieces grant +2 to hit and damage.
Stardust Micropellet System: The “Stardust” system was
a cutting-edge effort to use gravitic manipulation
techniques in projectile weaponry. By giving a
tiny flake of matter the mass profile of a bullet, a
Stardust weapon never runs out of ammunition,
albeit Stardust weaponry cannot burst fire. Stardust weaponry gains +1 on all hit and damage rolls.
Tempus Fugit: The weapons of the Tempus Fugit armory employed Mandate temporal acceleration
generators. Such acceleration is exhausting to
the user, however, and creates severe strain on
a normal biological system. As an Instant action,

a wielder with the weapon in hand can take an
additional full round of action any time they
wish. At the end of this bonus action, they suffer
1d4 System Strain, +1 for each use of this ability
within the past 24 hours. If their System Strain is
maximized by this, they fall unconscious for one
hour. Tempus Fugit weapons have a +1 bonus to
hit and damage.
Terminus Est: A sister-company to Tempus Fugit, the
Terminus Est line of advanced melee weaponry
employed spatial distortion technology. As an
Instant action at the start of a round, a wielder
with the weapon in hand can nominate a visible
target; for the rest of the round, they’re treated as
if they’re adjacent and engaged in melee combat
with the target, hindering ranged attacks, subjecting them to attacks if they move away without a
fighting withdrawal, and so forth. The wielder is
not subject to attacks by the target unless they actually are within range of the target’s weapons. By
straining the wielder’s perception pathways, this
target nomination can be applied to a number of
targets equal to the wielder’s Stab skill plus two.
Any attack made against one target is applied to all
nominated targets, using the same die rolls. Each
round this multiple nomination is maintained, the
wielder takes 2 System Strain. All Terminus Est
weapons have a +2 bonus to hit and damage rolls.
Tools of Ill Omen: A specialist weapon line designed by
sage-engineers affiliated with the Preceptors of
the Great Archive, the Tools are decorated with
taotie-motif fittings similar to those of Shang
Dynasty bronzes. Tools usually appear as melee
weapons, particularly halberds, dagger-axes and
swords, though stylized hypervelocity repeating
crossbows have been found that work like mag
rifles with unlimited ammo. The Tools function
with a +2 hit and damage bonus
Valiance Arms: Somewhat stodgy by pretech standards,
Valiance never embraced the more exotic potentials of pretech science. The company instead
preferred to focus on precision low-recoil projectile weapons and high-quality craftsmanship.
Valiance projectile weapons grant +2 to hit and
damage rolls.
Windcutter: Windcutter armaments are invariably
edged melee weapons. Their pretech manufacturers had an obsessive interest in maximizing weapon penetration, one carried to an extent that was
very impressive, if perhaps somewhat impractical
for field use. A Windcutter blade can slice through
any substance short of advanced pretech armor
plating, inflicting full normal damage on vehicles,
including gravtanks or other targets subject only
to Heavy weapons. For Shock purposes, all targets are treated as if they were AC 10. Against all
targets, the blades have an effective +1 bonus to
hit and damage.

ARTIFACTS •89

Artifact Equipment

AI Companion: True AI was never easily made by pretech scientists. AIs required individual care during
their development, and a disturbing percentage of
them had to be “braked” at sub-human levels in
order to prevent runaway cogitation on imponderable philosophical questions and the ensuing
metastatic insanity that followed. Some AIs managed to attain a human level of sentience before
requiring brakes. The less brilliant of these AIs
could be contained in hardware no larger than five
or six centimeters on a side, usually with integral
sensors and vocalization units. If an AI companion
takes a liking to a PC, they can be useful allies; they
all have effective Program and Fix skills at level 3
or greater, and may have additional capabilities.
A distressing number of these AIs have their own
purposes, however, that are not necessarily complementary to those of their “owners”.
Integrity Stims: Usually found in the form of a skinspray applicator, integrity stims restore 2d6+2 hit
points to a subject for each dose applied. Each dose
increases the target’s System Strain by 1 point, and
the stims are useless to those with maximized System Strain. More than one dose can be triggered
into a subject in one round, but each dose after the
first adds an additional second System Strain point
from the sudden overload of stimulants.
Juggernaut Stims: Originally designed for pretech shock
troops, this skinspray stimulant charges the user
with fearless aggression and indifference to pain.
The user immediately gains 3d6 temporary hit
points and +2 to hit for a period of ten rounds. At
the end of that period, any remaining temporary
hit points are lost, and the subject suffers -2 to hit
for the next hour as their system recovers. Use of
this stim adds 1 point of System Strain.
Micropurgator Stims: A sprayhypo laden with a revivifying cocktail of nanites and support chemicals, a
micropurgator stim will remove 1d4 points of accrued System Strain from the user. Only one such
stim can be applied to a person within 24 hours.
Mindwall Helmet: A transparent-visored helmet, this
headpiece strengthens the integrity of the wearer’s
neural patterns, making it more difficult for them
to be influenced by mind-affecting psionic powers.
The wearer gains a +2 saving throw against any
such attack, and is automatically alerted by the
helmet if made the target of a telepathic power.
The helmet does not help against purely physical
psionic attacks, such as through telekinetics, and
it cannot be worn with powered armor, vacc suits,
or an assault suit.
Polymorphic Nanites: Usually found in two-kilo cylinders with integral input-output data ports,
polymorphic nanites were a late-Second Wave
development that promised to revolutionize
manufacturing. When fed a design schematic us-

ing standard pretech CAD/CAM protocols, the
nanites exude into the desired object, mimicking
any necessary physical properties. The nanites can
be used to create any object of equivalent or lesser mass, provided a datapad or the equivalent is
available to feed them the schematic. The nanites
are single-use, but multiple cylinders can be linked
together to create larger objects. The workmanship of the nanites is good, but not exceptional;
any available schematic of tech level 4 or less can
be produced.
Pseudonuke: While conventional TL4 nuke snuffers
make dangerous nuclear reactions impossible
near spaceships or modern civil defense systems,
a pseudonuke is designed with esoteric pretech
parts and techniques to bypass TL4 defenses. Most
pseudonukes are no larger than a briefcase but can
detonate with enough force to wipe out a large
city or space station. The handful created before
the Scream were deniable Mandate tools to deal
with rebel frontier colonies. Those that survive
are spectacularly illegal on almost all worlds.
Redivivus Sheath: When found, a redivivus sheath resembles a tightly-rolled body bag with a fist-sized
computing module affixed to it. When a freshly-dead human body is sealed into the bag the
module releases a cloud of nanites to repair and
revive the subject. Revivification will work on any
victim no more than five minutes dead, assuming
the head is intact and most of their mass is present.
Subjects are revived in critically wounded condition with maximized System Strain. The redivivus
sheath functions only once before burning out.
System Reset Inductor: An array of pretech pharmaceuticals of truly heroic breadth, a sprayhypo full of
system reset inductor is one of the most powerful
concoctions ever devised by pretech biochemists.
On injection, the subject immediately loses all accrued System Strain points barring those permanently added by cyberware. The user can gain new
System Strain normally, but 48 hours after the inductor has been administered, the strain will catch
up with them. They fall immediately unconscious
with 1 hit point and maximized System Strain, and
will remain in a coma for 48 hours before awakening. Use of a second inductor before the first has
run its course will inevitably kill the subject within
five rounds of application, with no hope of revival
by psionic disciplines or conventional medical aid.
Wideawake Serum: Originally designed to facilitate
spike drills for single-man ships that couldn’t afford a sleeping pilot, wideawake serum gives the
user enormous vigor and alertness for up to seven
days at a time. The user need not sleep or even rest,
but during this time it is impossible to recover
accrued System Strain. A successful Heal check at
difficulty 10, made at most once per day, can flush
the drug from the user prematurely.

90• MODDING AND BUILDING EQUIPMENT

MODDING AND BUILDING EQUIPMENT
While truly sophisticated research and design often
requires resources beyond the reach of an adventuring
party, more modest workshops can allow a talented
technician with a healthy supply of after-market parts
to improve the quality of their own or their allies’ gear.
Without a full-fledged R&D department behind them,
a PC technician is generally limited to modifying and
improving existing gear.
A mod is an adjustment made to a specific piece
of tech to make it work better. These mods are finicky,
delicate, and often customized to the user. They aren’t
generally available on the market because they require
regular tuning and adjustment by a highly-skilled technician in order to keep them from degrading, or even
failing entirely. Mods require costly after-market parts
that can be expensive to acquire, and the most sophisticated ones require actual pretech salvage stripped from
advanced ancient technology. Normally, only TL4 gear
can be effectively modded, as more primitive tech isn’t
suitable for the advanced components involved.

Installing Mods

Building and installing a mod requires a well-equipped
TL4 workshop. It’s not necessary to have a full-fledged
fabrication plant, but the sort of resources that a professional repair tech or vehicle shop have are necessary
to assemble and adjust the tech. Such a shop can usually
be rented for 100 credits a day, or bought outright in a
city or other urban area for 25,000 credits. A starship’s
“Workshop” ship fitting will also qualify.
Mods have a minimum Fix skill required to install
or maintain them; a Customized mod requires Fix-1, for
example, while a Flexible mod takes Fix-2. Without this
skill level, the tech can’t build or install the mod, and
they can’t maintain it properly either.
Mods have a cost in credits or salvage. A tech with
access to a normal TL4 parts market can buy components with a credit cost, but certain highly sophisticated
mods require pretech components that can only be salvaged from certain ancient Mandate-era technological
devices. Not just any device will do for gathering these
components; these micronized fusion taps, antigrav
nodules, impact flexors, and polymorphic state controllers are found in only certain Mandate tech or in
rare ancient caches of unused components. A tech will
usually have to find these components as part of an
adventure, because those who have them need them
for their own purposes and will not part with them for
ordinary monetary compensation. The specific details
of these parts don’t matter for mod use, and they’re simply tracked as “salvage”. If a mod requires three units of
salvage, any three units will work, and it’s not normally
necessary for a tech to track down specific components.
Mods take time to build and install. It takes one
week per minimum skill level of the mod to build and

install it in the desired device. Thus, a Customized mod
takes a week to put in, while a Flexible mod takes two.
If a tech does nothing other than work, eat, and sleep,
they can halve these times, and an additional assistant
with at least Fix-0 skill can further halve the time.
Mods must be custom-built to specific objects. A
tech cannot build a “generic” mod and then just attach
it to a device; it must be carefully designed to fit exactly with that specific item, and sometimes even with a
specific user.

Mods and Maintenance
