bonus on all hit rolls. At the end of the duration,
they immediately lose those 10 hit points, which
may leave them mortally wounded. Each application adds 2 System Strain to the target.

74• GENERAL EQUIPMENT

Tools and Medical Gear

While a skilled technician or expert physician can
make do with improvised tools scrounged from their
surroundings, most adventurers prefer to be better-equipped to face unavoidable perils. Most of these
tools and medical supplies are available on any TL4
world, though pretech toolkits usually require excellent
personal contacts to obtain.
Bioscanner: While an untrained user can use this tool to
discern internal bleeding, gross physical distress,
or toxins in a plant or animal, it requires Heal-0
skill to use this tool to its fullest. Such operators
can use the bioscanner for a full spectrum of diagnosis and DNA sequencing achievable in minutes. One type A power cell will power it for up
to twenty-four hours of regular usage.
Lazarus patch: A vital tool for adventurers, the lazarus
patch is a heavy compress laced with antibiotics,
coagulants, system stabilizers, plasma, and a oneshot diagnostic suite. If the patch is applied to a
character that has fallen to 0 hit points, the user
can make an Int/Heal or Dex/Heal skill check
against difficulty 6 to stabilize the subject. The
more time between injury and application, the less
chance the patch has to work. Each round after
the first, an additional -1 penalty is applied to the
skill check. The patch is no use after six rounds. If
the medic fails the first skill check, they can keep
trying the check once per round until the victim
is revived or time runs out.
Lazarus patches are no use on victims that
have died of disease, poison, or have been mangled beyond surgical repair by Heavy weapons or
similar trauma. Only one patch can be applied to
a victim. Revived victims are critically wounded
until sufficient medical help has been tendered;
see the Systems chapter for details.
Medkit: Containing a broad supply of pharmaceuticals, spray bandages, glue sutures, and a succinct
handbook of injury care, the medkit is designed
for handling sudden and drastic injuries. It also
contains all the necessary tools for providing
long-term recuperative care for critically injured
characters. After each day of granting long-term
recuperative care, roll 2d6 per patient treated; on
a 12, the kit has run out of some vital pharmaceutical and has become useless.
Metatool: This wrist-mounted housing contains a myriad of small, useful tools designed to handle the
widest possible range of technical needs. While
a metatool is too limited to handle major jobs, it
is usually sufficient to manage jury-rigged repairs
and temporary fixes until the tech has time to apply a larger wrench to the problem.
Spare parts: This is a general category for a number
of small TL4 components and repair materials.
While a simple toolkit or metatool is often enough

to fix a damaged object, severely broken devices
may need replacement parts. Rather than keep a
catalog of bits and pieces, a technician can simply
bring along one or more units of spare parts, subtracting one whenever the GM decides that a repair effort requires more than existing salvage can
support. A unit of spare parts can also be used to
jury-rig some basic, uncomplicated tool or weapon from the equipment list with ten or fifteen
minutes of assembly and at least Fix-0 skill. Such
bodged devices rarely last longer than one scene.
Tailored Antiallergens: A dose of tailored antiallergens
can be used to render a local world’s organics largely edible by humans and its atmosphere breathable
without severe allergic reactions. While many
worlds have been seeded with Terran life forms or
have produced organics that are edible by humans,
others are toxic without the appropriate chemical
augmentation. A dose of these antiallergens lasts
for twenty-four hours.
Toolkits: Containing a wide range of necessary tools for
a particular skill set, toolkits can handle almost
any job that doesn’t require a full-scale shop or lab.
A standard postech toolkit can handle electronics,
small welding jobs, and basic repair on ordinary
TL4 goods. More sophisticated pretech tools are
necessary for working on advanced TL5 artifacts,
and the tools themselves are very rare and difficult
to obtain.

Building New Tech
In a science-fiction game, it’s often difficult to figure out the limits of ad-hoc tech. When the limits
of technology often seem to be based on genre
rather than physics it can be tough to make the call.
Most of the time, it’s simply not practical for
a technician to devise dramatic new tech without
the use of a full-scale research facility.
Even so, sometimes a PC will ask to build
something that creates a particular effect that
seems in line with other gear of a similar tech level.
A hologram-emitting “grenade”, a jury-rigged set
of infrared goggles, an explosive that detonates if
background radiation drops below a certain level…
these things match known TL4 tech.
In these cases, the GM should set a plausible-seeming price in credits or spare part units,
assign a time ranging from fifteen minutes to a
month based on the complexity of the tech, and
roll a secret Int/Fix check against a difficulty from
8 to 12. When the tech is actually used, the skill
check determines whether it functions or not.
Most such jury-rigged tech works only once,
being too fragile or quirky to last more than a
scene. Repeated refinement and testing may allow
for a more lasting piece of equipment.

GENERAL EQUIPMENT •75

Field Equipment

When venturing into the trackless void every adventurer is going to need the right hardware to survive
the experience. The field equipment in this section includes some of the more common technology favored
by explorers and fearless investigators of alien worlds.
The TL5 equipment listed here can usually be found for
sale on populous worlds with an active commerce in
pretech relics, but smaller or more backwards worlds
may not have any of it available.
Atmofilter: This face mask can filter out most atmospheric toxins. Attaching a standard vacc suit oxygen bottle to a belt-mounted feed will also supply
a breathable atmosphere for up to six hours.
Backpack: TL4 versions of this item are effectively
without encumbrance, albeit they cost 50 credits.
A worn backpack counts as a readied item, though
objects stowed inside it still require the usual
round to dig free. Characters without backpacks
or similar carrying devices might have difficulty
justifying the hauling of large amounts of gear.
Binoculars: Standard 7x50 binoculars. TL4 versions are
available that have integral low-light optics and
up to 25x150 power. TL 4 binocs cost 200 credits
and require a type A power cell for up to a week
of regular usage.
Climbing harness: A collection of straps, ropes, pitons,
and other climbing aids that grant a +1 bonus on
any Exert climbing skill test. Using a climbing
harness is noisy, and any Sneak skill checks while
climbing with one suffer a -2 penalty.
Glowbug: A palm-sized disc that can adhere to any
non-porous surface. When turned on, it emits
a white light, illuminating everything within ten
meters for twenty-four hours. A hundred glowbugs can be recharged off a single type A cell.
Grapnel launcher: This launcher fires a rope up to forty meters. The rope can bear up to a metric ton
of weight, though extremely heavy weights or a
precarious hit can cause the grapnel to pull free. A
Type A power cell fuels six shots from a launcher.
Grav chute: When this cylinder is strapped to a person
or object and activated, it smoothly modulates falling speeds for up to 1000 meters. The chute can
safely slow up to 300 kilos of weight. TL5 versions
can operate from orbital heights and cost 1,000
credits, where they can be found at all. Both versions burn out after one use.
Grav harness: This advanced gravitic harness allows
clumsy flight at a rate of 20 meters per round as
a Main Action. It requires a Type B power cell
to fuel it, and the miniaturized electronics are
rapacious, consuming the cell in five minutes of
operation. It can lift up to 200 kilos.
Instapanel: In its compressed form, an instapanel is a
two-kilo cube of ceraplast five centimeters on a
side. When a type A power cell is inserted in the

cube’s side, it immediately expands to an opaque,
waterproof ceraplast sheet 2 meters on each side
and a centimeter thick. Five minutes later the ceraplast hardens into a tough, rigid shape, but until
then it can be folded or bent by hand. Instapanels
can be bonded to one another with a metatool or a
toolkit. Breaking an instapanel requires inflicting
at least twelve points of damage on it.
Low-light goggles: These goggles provide a monochrome but serviceable view out to the wearer’s
normal visual distance, provided that there is any
illumination available at all. A type A power cell
will operate these goggles for a week.
Navcomp: A combination of low-tech compasses, automappers, astronomic charts, and gyroscopes
packed into a flat, one-kilo case. A character with
a navcomp will never get lost on worlds with GPS
satellites. They can also make a crude but serviceable automatic map of all buildings or landscapes
they travel through. Other terrestrial navigation
skill checks are made at a +1 bonus.
Portabox: A small cube of ceraplast attached to an electronic keycard. When a type A power cell is inserted, the portabox immediately unfolds into a
rigid locker with 1.5 x 1 x 1 meter dimensions.
The portabox is air-tight and has a simple electronic lock which can only be opened with the
keycard or a successful difficulty 8 Sneak or Fix
skill check. Failing the check will cause the lock
to short-circuit and seal the box until it can be cut
open with a metatool or broken open with twenty
points of damage.
Pressure tent: This tent maintains a breathable atmosphere, tolerable temperature and serviceable
sleeping quarters for up to five very friendly occupants. Advanced filtration and cracking tech
allows a single standard vacc suit oxygen tank to
provide breathable air for the occupants for up to
24 hours. The tent requires a type A power cell for
each day in which this filter is employed.
Rations: Dried or otherwise preserved foodstuffs sufficient for one day. If water is not otherwise available, add another item’s worth of encumbrance
for the water necessary for a person’s daily needs.
Rope: Light and sturdy. A metatool can be used to cut
and join the synthetics used in TL4 rope, which
counts as one encumbrance item per 40 meters
and costs 40 credits.
Scout report: A collation of survey scans and merchant
reports on a particular lost world or isolated colony. Scouting reports are available for all but the
most unknown worlds and provide maps, basic
information, and note any critical cultural taboos.
Survey scanner: A multipurpose scanner that can take
atmospheric and gravitic readings, provide basic
chemical analysis of samples of up to one cubic
centimeter in size, and record up to two hundred hours of video information or ten times that

76• GENERAL EQUIPMENT
amount of audio. Know skill checks are necessary
for any but the most basic analysis.
Survival kit: A standard belt-worn kit with fire lighter,
water filter, three thermal flares, knife, thermal
blanket, a brightly-colored 3 x 3 meter waterproof
tarp, a glowbug, and a radio beacon that can transmit a distress signal up to fifty kilometers for one
month on the included type A power cell. Survival
kits sold on a particular world will usually also include a small booklet on specific dangers or edible
organics. Possession of a survival kit grants a +1 to
all relevant Survive skill checks, assuming its contents are helpful on a given planet. Survival kits
are well-organized, and count as only one item for
encumbrance purposes.
Telescoping pole: Retracting to a 30-centimeter baton,
this pole extends and locks into a 3.048-meter
extension that can bear as much as a thousand
kilograms of weight or serve as a makeshift club.
Thermal flare: If triggered in one mode, the flare burns
with a bright white light for two hours, illuminating up to twenty meters around the holder. If the
guidance fins are extended first, the flare launches
up to 200 meters and explodes in a bright white
flash. A launched flare does 1d6 damage to anyone
it hits, though the clumsy flight gives a -4 penalty
on any attempts to hit something with it.
Trade goods: Glowbugs, ceramic fire lighters, antibiotics, ceraplast tools, and the other fruits of a
TL4 civilization that might be valuable on more
primitive worlds. A kilo of trade goods can usually
be traded for at least a hundred credits worth of
local products on more primitive worlds that are
not well-served by interstellar merchants. The
profit margin shrinks rapidly as interstellar trade
becomes more common, and there is always the
difficulty of finding local products that are actually
worth a merchant’s journey.
Trade metals: The fruit of common TL4 asteroid mining, trade metals include gold, platinum, artificial
gemstones, and other substances precious on
many lost worlds and trivially valuable on spacefaring ones. A kilo worth of trade metals can
be exchanged for as much as a thousand credits
worth of local products on metal-poor worlds isolated from interstellar trade. Markets flood rapidly,
however, and it usually doesn’t take more than a
few merchant trips to persuade the locals to demand trade goods or credits.
Vacc fresher: This three-kilo tube filters and compresses atmosphere to refill vacc suit oxygen tanks. It
can extract oxygen from any atmosphere which
contains it, even in the form of carbon dioxide.
Refilling a standard vacc suit tank requires ten
minutes of operation and consumes one type A
power cell. Most vacc freshers are also equipped
with an emergency hand crank power source,
though it requires at least two hours of cranking.

Local Brands
The equipment described in this section matches
standard TL4 hardware from the average modern
space-faring world. A PC who buys a generic vacc
suit can expect it to work the way it’s listed here.
Not all worlds have identical tech, however,
even if they share a tech level. Planets with particular natural hazards or technological focuses often have significantly better tech for dealing with
these things than their neighbors, while worlds
that lack vital resources or industrial infrastructure might have considerably worse gear.
As the GM, don’t hesitate to brew up local
tech that can be used as a reward for PCs or a
special buying opportunity. The gear might grant
skill bonuses, function longer, do more damage,
have an AC bonus, or offer some other perk. Such
unique hardware can add flavor to a world’s tech.
Vacc suit: The standard TL4 vacc suit is designed to
allow the wearer to survive in both hard vacuum and on most inhospitable planetary surfaces.
The suit protects against ordinary levels of cosmic
radiation and provides a temperature-controlled
atmosphere. Vacc suits are equipped with radios
that have a ten-kilometer range. A vacc suit oxygen tank weighs 1 encumbrance, included with
the weight of the suit, and functions for six hours.
Vacc suits are cumbersome, and apply a -2
penalty to all hit rolls and skill checks that require movement. Those with at least a month of
zero-gee experience can ignore this penalty. No
armor can be worn with a vacc suit, though the
suit itself grants AC 13 to its wearers. A vacc suit
requires one type A power cell for each twelve
hours of operation.
Vacc suits have a self-healing exterior that
can seal the puncture wounds caused by bullets,
arrows, or energy beams, but a strike from an
edged weapon can overwhelm the repair system.
If a character with 10 or fewer hit points is struck
by an edged weapon, there is a 50% chance the suit
is torn. Suits are equipped with emergency repair
patches, but it requires a Main Action to apply one.
Exposure to vacuum is described on page 58.
Vacc skin: A more advanced TL5 version of the vacc
suit, this skin-tight suit can be worn as a readied
item in conjunction with armor, though it grants
no Armor Class bonus itself. It requires no oxygen tank, automatically cracking and recycling
the wearer’s respiration, and can even recycle the
wearer’s bodily waste into drinkable water if necessary. Vacc skins apply no penalty to hit rolls or
skill checks for wearers. It suffers tears in the same
way as a normal vacc suit, and requires a type A
power cell for each 24 hours of operation.

LIFESTYLES, EMPLOYEES, AND SERVICES •77

LIFESTYLES, EMPLOYEES, AND SERVICES
Adventurers who spend much time in a place are likely
to need to buy food, shelter, and the usual trifles of
daily living. Rather than itemize each expense, a PC
can simply spend an fixed amount for each day they
spend living outside of a ship’s crew, barracks, or other
arranged living situation.
Slum lifestyles reflect bare minimums for survival,
with scanty food, a corner in a squat somewhere, and
little else. Poor lifestyles involve barracks-like quarters,
public transport, and small and infrequent luxuries.
Common lifestyles usually allow for a private urban
apartment or rural home, a rented personal vehicle, a
respectable wardrobe, and regular small indulgences.
Good lifestyles permit a private urban townhouse or
similar dwelling, a spacious rural home, a better grade
of personal vehicle, and the ability to indulge in minor
expenses such as restaurants or clubs without concern.
Elite lifestyles allow for entire floors of luxury buildings
or rented rural estates, drivers and on-call gravflyers,

personal staff, and similar perks. Peerless lifestyles are
similar to that of pampered celebrities and oligarchs,
with round-the-clock staff service, free entrance into
the most exclusive locales, and the best of everything.
Prices given here assume short-term rentals and
contracts, plus the inevitable premium charged to outsiders in almost any society. Natives might be able to
enjoy a given level of lifestyle for only half as much,
but such savings usually rely on a local’s connections.

PCs will sometimes need to hire help, and GMs occasionally need to know what constitutes a “good wage”
for a local NPC. The prices to the right reflect daily
wages for NPCs with level-0, level-1, and level-2 skill
ratings in their relevant professional skills. More talented employees cannot normally be obtained without
special effort in finding and recruiting them.
Psychics are both rare and expensive to hire. Even
if one can be found, they rarely charge less than 200
credits per day per psychic skill level to be employed.
Employees will carry out ordinary duties without
demur, but will be no braver or more dedicated than
their pay and connections would make them.

Employee
Artist
Programmer
Doctor
Guard
Lawyer
Prostitute
Psychic
Scientist
Technician
Unskilled Labor

Wage/day
3/10/100
10/30/100
50/100/400
10/20/150
10/25/400
2/10/200
Special
10/30/100
10/30/100
2/8/15

Adventurers often need to obtain certain services or
concessions from the locals, and the list to the right
provides prices for some of their more common needs.
Bribe prices often vary depending on a planet’s
general level of corruption, but the prices here are normal for most. Minor crimes usually involve anything
that would only earn a fine or a few months in jail.
Major crimes include most felonies and anything that
would earn years in prison. Capital crimes are any that
would get a culprit executed on the world. Particularly blatant or sensitive offenses might be impossible to
solve with mere bribery, though the right “special favors” to the right officials might win a reprieve.
Forged identity papers include high-quality documentation with the appropriate false database entries.
They’re good enough to survive checkpoints and security stops, but they won’t hold up to a serious check by
a suspicious bureaucrat.

Service
Bribe, minor crime forgiveness
Bribe, major crime forgiveness
Bribe, capital crime forgiveness
Forged identity papers
Intensive medical care
Mail message, interstellar
Mass transit weekly pass
Rent a TL4 workshop
Rent a groundcar
Starship passage, steerage
Starship passage, good
Starship cargo shipping, per kilo
Wildly decadent party

Cost
50
500
5,000
500
200/day
1/hex
2
100/day
15/day
500/hex
1,000/hex
25/hex
100/person

Lifestyle
Slum
Poor
Common
Good
Elite
Peerless

Cost/day
5
10
15
25
200
1,000

78• VEHICLES

VEHICLES
Most modern TL4 worlds rely on electrically-powered
gravitic vehicles. Whether in the ubiquitous gravcar,
hovercycle, or high-altitude gravflyer, cleared roadways carry the traffic of countless worlds. On rougher
worlds, the roads may not even be paved, instead relying on a gravitic vehicle’s high clearance to avoid holes
and rough debris.
Less sophisticated worlds are still reliant on internal-combustion engines. Many worlds have sufficient
local resources to fabricate some kind of combustible
fuel, but a few are so impoverished that they lack even
this minimal resource. Such worlds must rely on muscle power for transport, either that of alien beasts or
humble human porters.

Vehicle Statistics and Combat

Vehicles are generally powered by type B power cells on
TL4 worlds. More primitive planets are usually forced
