
Mods require maintenance to keep functioning correctly. Overclocked hardware, bleeding-edge tech, and
experimental adjustments just don’t have the field durability of more standard gear, so a tech must apply daily
attention to the modded hardware if it’s not to fail. A
normal TL4 toolbox is required to maintain mods, but
no special parts are needed.
A tech’s Maintenance score is equal to the total of
their Intelligence and Constitution modifiers plus three
times their Fix skill level. The smarter and the longer a
tech can work, the more maintenance they can perform,
but their overall expertise as a technician is the most
crucial element. A tech can maintain a number of mods
equal to their Maintenance score without cutting into
their adventuring time or otherwise encumbering their
off-duty hours. This maintenance is assumed to take
place during downtime and doesn’t need to be tracked
specifically in play. If they do nothing but maintenance,
they can double their score, but this kind of dedication
requires sixteen-hour workdays.
If a mod goes without maintenance for 24 hours, it
stops working. If a mod goes without maintenance for
a week, the entire device it’s attached to stops working,
as the untuned mod has made it useless or dangerous to
use. Weapons can no longer be used in combat, armor
no longer gives protection, seizes up, or is too dangerous to wear, and other devices simply stop functioning.
A maintenance backlog on a device can be cleared by an
hour of work by a technician capable of maintaining it.

Building Conventional Gear

Sometimes a wrench jockey will want to build their
own equipment rather than purchase it off the shelf.
This may be because there’s no such gear for sale, the
equipment is illegal on this world, the tech wants it
cheaper than the vendors sell it, or the tech wants
to build a custom platform for their favorite mods.
The gear built this way must be feasible to create in a
workshop; guns, armor, and modestly-sized vehicles
are possible, but starship components and other major
constructions are not.
A tech requires a TL4 workshop to build most TL4
equipment. More primitive gear can be built with less

MODDING AND BUILDING EQUIPMENT •91
elaborate resources at the GM’s discretion. The workshop must be at least nominally capable of working with
the kind of gear the tech is building. A vehicle repair
shop will not have the tools to brew pharmaceuticals,
and a back-room electronics shop won’t have the lifts
to work on armored vehicles. If the tech needs to refit a
workshop to work on a particular type of unsupported
gear, they can pay half the shop’s original price to get
the needed tools. Starships with Workshop fittings are
always sufficient for personal gear modifications.
The tech needs a supply of parts. In any TL4 city
or sizable community, the tech can scrounge, barter,
or buy what they need from the locals. A tech working
in a shop out in the wilds can prepare by taking a few
footlockers full of materials that can fit in a vehicle or
on pack animals, buying a certain number of credits
worth of spare parts and hauling them along. Techs in
dire need can strip ancient high-tech ruins, battlefields,
and scrap heaps for parts if no better source is available.
Techs must decide whether the device they’re
building is to be jury-rigged, normal, or mastercrafted.
Jury-rigged devices are assembled out of cheap scrap,
bottom-tier components, and makeshift kludges.
They’re much cheaper to make than to buy, but they require constant attention to keep them operating. Normal devices work just as well as anything that you’d buy
off the shelf, but the lack of economies of scale and the
need to acquire all the parts at retail make them more
expensive than buying it off the shelf. Mastercrafted
gear is carefully built to support a tech’s own innovations and favorite modifications. They are extremely
expensive, but much easier to mod and maintain than
off-the-shelf tech.
Building the gear usually takes one month for a
vehicle and one week for a weapon, suit of armor, or
other portable device. Having at least one assistant with
Fix-0 will halve this time.
Jury-rigged devices cost one-quarter as much as
the normal device and take half the normal time to
build. If the tech has access to scrap or salvage, they
can assemble it at no cost, but it takes twice the normal
time to build it. A jury-rigged device counts as a mod
requiring Fix-0 to maintain. If it goes 24 hours without maintenance, it stops working. Jury-rigged devices
cannot be modded.
Normal devices cost twice as much as they would
off-the-shelf and take the normal amount of time to
build. They cannot be built with scrap or salvaged parts
unless the GM decides that the salvage is perfectly suited for this use. Drugs and other consumable goods must
be built as normal devices rather than jury-rigged or
mastercrafted ones.
Mastercrafted devices require costly premade
components and cost ten times as much as the normal
device, and require twice as much time to build. They
are ideal platforms for the tech’s own modifications,
however, and the first mod installed in the device requires no maintenance.

Sample Mods

The mods listed below are simply a sample of those a
GM might approve for their campaign. Weapon and
armor mods should not stack beyond a +3 bonus to AC,
hit rolls or damage rolls, and any mod improving a skill
check shouldn’t boost it by more than +1. A mod can
only be installed once on any given piece of equipment.
Autotargeting (Fix-2): The weapon has had micronized
kinetic targeting aids installed, granting a +1 bonus to hit rolls with it. Costs 4,000 credits.
Boosted (Fix-2): The weapon has been tuned for greater
damage output, adding +2 to the damage it does.
Costs 2,000 credits.
Bubbleseal (Fix-1): The armor is equipped with automatic pressure seals and emergency oxygen. It can
be triggered manually or activates automatically
on exposure to low pressure, functioning as a vacc
suit for up to one hour. Costs 5,000 credits.
Concealed (Fix-2): The device is disguised as a specific
different object of the same general mass. This
disguise will fool standard TL4 sensors, but not a
close physical inspection of the object. Costs ten
times the device’s base cost.
Customized (Fix-1): The weapon or armor has been
carefully tailored to a single specific user. When
used by that person, they get a +1 to hit with the
weapon or a +1 Armor Class bonus with armor.
Costs 1,000 credits and is inapplicable to shields.
Extended Magazine (Fix-1): The firearm has been adjusted so that its magazine size is doubled. Costs
500 credits.
Flexible (Fix-2): The armor is carefully tailored to a
specific wearer with an eye towards reducing its
weight and cumbersomeness. Its Encumbrance
value is lowered by 1 for that wearer, and increased by 1 for anyone else. Costs 5,000 credits.
High Efficiency (Fix-1): A device with a duration of
operation, such as a vacc suit or fueled vehicle,
now functions for 50% longer on the same charge.
Costs five times the device’s usual cost.
Infinite Magazine (Fix-3): The firearm now automatically produces its own physical ammunition. Costs
10,000 credits and two units of pretech salvage.
Infinite Power (Fix-3): A device powered by a Type A
power cell now never runs out of power. Costs
5,000 credits and one unit of pretech salvage.
Phasing (Fix-3): The weapon is tuned to partially phase
through armor and impeding debris, granting a +1
bonus to hit rolls with it. Costs 10,000 credits and
two units of pretech salvage.
Polymorphic Blending (Fix-2): The armor can shift in
appearance to that of normal clothing or different-looking armor. Several dozen different appearances can be loaded into it at any one time.
The armor functions and encumbers normally
regardless of its external appearance. Costs 5,000
credits and one unit of pretech salvage.

