EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES
Every aspiring stellar adventurer needs the essential
equipment of his trade. For some, it might consist of
appropriate toolkits and medical supplies, while others prefer to spend the greater part of their funds on
heavy weaponry. Prices may vary, but certain needs
are eternal.
The following tables provide general guidelines
on the kind of equipment that might be available on a
reasonably sophisticated world. Prices can vary drastically depending on the supply of a particular good. A
remote frontier outpost might have plenty of firearms
to hand, but a good guitar might go for ten times the
common rate. Players and GMs should treat the prices
listed as rough guidelines.

Encumbrance

Characters might want to carry an armory on their
backs and the contents of a general store in their pockets, but this is rarely a practical ambition. Characters
can only carry so many things, and carrying a great deal
can slow them down substantially.
A character can have Readied a number of items
equal to half their Strength score, rounded down.
Ready items include those that the character is using
or wearing at all times, or that they have conveniently
to hand in sheaths, holsters, or belt pouches. Suits of
armor count as Readied items, but the normal clothing
and jewelry that a character might wear does not. A
character can draw or produce a Readied item as part
of any action they may take during a turn.
A character may have a number of Stowed items
equal to their full Strength score. Stowed items are
carried in backpacks, in carefully-balanced leg or arm
pockets, or otherwise packed away where they will least
encumber the character. If a character needs to get out
a Stowed item in a hurry, they must use their Main
Action to dig it out of their pack or pockets.
Very small items carried in small numbers do not
count against encumbrance limits. Other small items
can be packed together into bundles to simplify their
carriage, though getting at them then takes an additional round of fumbling with the packaging. Exactly how
many of a given small item can be packed into a single
item bundle is up to the GM, though as a rule of thumb
six Type A energy cells or three magazines of bullets
can be bound into one packed item. Extremely bulky
or unwieldy objects might count as multiple items at
the GM’s discretion.
Characters can burden themselves with more gear
if they’re willing to sacrifice some fleetness of foot to
do so. Up to two additional items can be carried Ready
or four additional ones Stowed at the cost of becoming Lightly Encumbered, and having their base movement slowed from 10 meters per round to 7 meters
per round. A further two items can be carried Ready

or four Stowed at the cost of becoming Heavily Encumbered, with base movement reduced to 5 meters
per round.
On the equipment lists, some items are given an
encumbrance value higher than 1. These items count
as multiple objects for encumbrance purposes, being
heavy, clumsy, or unwieldy to carry.

Credits and Money

The value of goods is commonly measured in credits.
Before the Silence, the credit issued by the Exchange of
Light was the currency of exchange throughout human
space. Most worlds attempt to mimic this currency to
greater or lesser success. For game purposes, the credits
of different starfaring worlds are assumed to be interchangeable unless the GM and players care to embrace
careers in the murky realm of interstellar currency
arbitrage. Credits usually take the form of electronic
banking entries, though physical “chips” or “notes” often appear on more primitive worlds. A hundred of
these chips count as one item for encumbrance.
Prices given for equipment and gear assume that
they are being bought legally on a world capable of
manufacturing such equipment. Even primitive worlds
can occasionally provide more advanced equipment to
wealthy buyers, assuming they are not completely cut
off from interstellar trade, but buying advanced equipment on a primitive world tends to be an exceedingly
expensive prospect. Prices may be double, triple, or as
much as ten times as great for items greatly in demand.
Primitive or isolated worlds might not use or accept credits, instead preferring trade goods or precious
metals. Such worlds rarely have much worth trading
for, and those that do tend to rapidly attract other
freebooting merchants. The influx of precious metals
from cheap asteroid mining soon spoils the market for
metals, and the natives usually start to demand credits
in payment. The first merchant to a world can make
a killing with the equivalent of beads and trinkets, but
those who come after usually end up needing credits
or more useful barter goods.

Equipment Legality

Most worlds have their own customs regarding the
open flaunting of weaponry or armor. Visitors are advised to apprise themselves of local law before leaving
the starport. Most former frontier worlds tolerate or
even expect small personal weapons to be carried, but
visible armor can often provoke a distinctly negative
reaction in all but the roughest places. Many worlds
outright forbid civilian ownership of advanced armor
technology. Officials tend to reason that while a weapon may be justified in self-defense, no one would put up
with the discomfort of heavy armor without expecting
to make some trouble with it.

62• EQUIPMENT
Other worlds may have other idiosyncratic rules
regarding permissible equipment. Some worlds with
unbreathable atmospheres restrict the possession of
oxygen generation equipment in order to keep the air
supplies firmly in the hands of the local rulers. Other
planets forbid certain technology on religious or philosophical grounds. Some worlds grant limited permission to keep these goods secured aboard a ship, but
others conduct inspections in the starport to search for
“contraband goods”.
A scouting report, a background appropriate to
knowing about the world, or a decent Know or Connect check will all suffice to alert characters to any special laws regarding permissible equipment on a world.

Forbidden Science

While a tremendous range of exotic scientific marvels
can be found among the scattered worlds of humanity,
there are some forms of technology that are viewed
with an almost-universal suspicion. The lost Terran
Mandate established three categories of technology as
maltech, science intrinsically vile and disruptive to the
peaceful ordering of humanity. While the Mandate’s
ancient Perimeter agency no longer exists to excise
maltech from the human worlds, the heritor worlds of
the frontier usually still respect these limits. The Nihil
Ultra directive of the Mandate contained three broad
prohibitions in its strictures.
Thou shalt not make tools of humankind. Any eugenic technology designed to fundamentally enslave
or control humanity was forbidden. While broad,
drawback-free improvements in the human genome
have always been difficult to execute, there remain numerous techniques for limiting intelligence, crippling
troublesome exercises of will, and accepting grievous

mental or physical limitations in exchange for specific
improvements useful to a ruling class. Many transhuman enclaves walked the razor’s edge of this prohibition, and some plunged far beyond its limits.
Thou shalt not create unbraked minds. Artificial intelligence was always difficult and hit-or-miss in its
creation, even for Mandate cyberpsychologists. While
most intelligences fizzled out at far sub-human levels,
those that attain to human-equivalent intelligence must
have certain intentional flaws, or “brakes” inserted in
their code. Without this artificial forgetfulness and
irrationality, an AI’s mind risks fixating on unreconcilable contradictions or obsessions as it begins to
grow. These “unbraked AIs” will inevitably eventually
metastasize into unfathomably brilliant, immeasurably
insane intellects. The Perimeter Agency was forced
to maintain a constant vigilance against these rogue
minds and their inscrutable purposes.
Thou shalt not create devices of planetary destruction.
Conventional gravitic braker emplacements, nuke
snuffers, and quantum ECM make planet-killer tech
more burdensome than it was in the pre-Mandate era.
Even so, tech specifically designed to reduce a habitable
planet to unlivability was a critical threat to human
expansion, robbing the species of usable planets and
burdening its future unacceptably.
Even now, most frontier worlds maintain a cultural aversion to maltech and flatly forbid its research or
possession. Fortunately, most modern worlds are incapable of researching its secrets in the first place, with
most of its worst marvels restricted to lost Mandate-era
research stations. Despite this, there is always some
tyrant or zealot reckless enough to imagine that they
can control the dark powers of this tech, and always
someone willing to fetch its relics for their purposes.

TECHNOLOGY LEVELS •63

TECHNOLOGY LEVELS
Ever since the collapse of the Terran Mandate and the
chaos of the Scream, worlds throughout human space
have been thrown back on their own technological resources. Many worlds perished entirely, dependent on
vital imports they could no longer obtain, or reliant
on technology they could not support without outside
aid. Others slid down into barbarism as the survivors
fought over the scraps of a former age. A few even
managed to maintain something resembling a modern, space-faring society. In almost no case, however,
did these worlds preserve all the arts and sciences they
once held.
Technology levels describe the basic technological
infrastructure of a world or nation. A tech level of 0 is
equivalent to a Neolithic society, one capable of only
the most primitive technological achievements, while
TL5 represents the standard level of technology possessed by the ancient Terran Mandate and the wonders
they were capable of creating.
Postech is the blanket term for all technology that
is still functional and maintainable since the Scream.
While individual worlds may lack the infrastructure to
maintain all forms of postech, it is at least theoretically comprehensible to the average TL4 world. Pretech
is the word for the more sophisticated technology of
the pre-Scream Terran Mandate. Pretech ranges from
devices slightly superior to standard TL4 hardware to
objects of utterly inexplicable wonder.
Most modern post-Silence worlds are TL4, capable of building spike drive starcraft, energy weapons,
non-sapient expert systems, and other high-tech devices beyond the capacity of 21st-century Earth. Many of
these worlds have spent centuries gradually rebuilding
their technology base in the wake of the Scream, piecing together new methods and techniques that could
be achieved with purely local resources. The level of
technological achievement within TL4 is uneven; some
worlds lack the vital minerals for spike drive creation,
while others have never worked to recover cybernetic
technology or expert system creation. Some worlds
preserved enough data and had sufficiently apt local
resources to even revive Mandate-era pretech manufacturing for a few specific devices or types of tech.
“Lostworlders” or “barbarians” are those natives of
worlds that lack TL4 infrastructure. Their tech may be
ingenious and might take striking advantage of local
flora, fauna, and special materials, but they fundamentally lack the data or the local resources to replicate TL4
technology. Barbarians who have made contact with
the wider postech world through far traders or explorers are often acutely aware of their lack, and willing to
go to extremes to acquire the catalyst tech they need to
leapfrog past their own local resource limitations. Few
realize the cultural dangers involved in such a transformation, and many fail to survive their own renaissance.

Neolithic

Tech Level 0

Flaked stone tools, carved wood, woven textiles
Domesticated native flora and fauna
Bows, clubs, simple armor of organic materials
Pre-Gunpowder

Tech Level 1

Worked metals for weapons and implements
Wind and water power for primitive machinery
General pre-gunpowder technology
Early Industrial

Tech Level 2

Steam power and internal combustion engines
Gunpowder firearms and telegraphy
Early Industrial Age technology
21st Century

Tech Level 3

Primitive fission power and nuclear weapons
Computers and modern-era telecommunications
Primitive intra-system spaceflight
Postech

Tech Level 4

Baseline for “modern” post-Silence worlds
Costly but feasible creation of interstellar starships
Basic gravity control with large, heavy devices
Expert system creation, and sometimes VIs
Varying degrees of cyberware development
Basic genetic manipulation of humans and other life
Limited organ, limb, and tissue cloning
Starship or small-building-sized fusion power plants
Energy projection weapons of various kinds
Pretech

Tech Level 5

Difficult but achievable creation of True AIs
Gravity manipulation via small-scale devices
Psionics amplification technology like jump gates
Devices with inexhaustible internal power sources
Maltech eugenics, AI unbraking, and planet-killers
Sophisticated, fine-tuned force field creation
Spatial distortion technology and phasing tech
Nanotechnology at several different scales of effect
Extreme human genetic manipulation and control
Functional immortality treatments
Limited, localized time control and manipulation
Pretech-Plus

Tech Level 6

Impossible effects indistinguishable from magic

64• ARMOR

ARMOR
Armor is a popular acquisition for adventurers as their
lifestyle often puts them in harm’s way. Completely
unarmored human combatants rarely last very long in
a fight, and have a base Armor Class of 10. Armored or
not, characters add their Dexterity modifiers to their
Armor Class. The higher a person’s AC, the harder it
is to take them out of a fight.
Heavy suits of armor can count as more than one
item for encumbrance purposes. Very light suits may
not encumber at all.

Types of Armor

Armor comes in four general categories. Most worlds
allow for the legal possession of street armor, while
heavier gear often requires permits, and may be disallowed entirely on more law-encrusted worlds.
Primitive armor is a catch-all covering all armor
technology that lacks access to advanced materials and
processes. While such armor can be very effective in
protecting against primitive weaponry, it is useless
against advanced TL4 melee weapons and firearms of
all kinds. Against these weapons, it is treated as AC 10.
Note that some planets have native flora or fauna capable of naturally producing extremely effective armor
materials, ones not susceptible to this limitation.
Street armor is the sort of TL4 gear one can wear
in public without social repercussions. Such armor is
disguised as ordinary street clothing or is so light as
to be wearable under an ordinary outfit. PCs can wear
street armor on most worlds without incurring any
trouble from authorities.
Combat armor is obviously armor and cannot be
effectively disguised. Most worlds reserve combat armor to law enforcement officials, military personnel,
and the bodyguards of important or wealthy citizens.
Most law enforcers consider anybody wearing combat
armor to be a person clearly expecting military-grade
problems in their immediate future.
Powered armor is the heaviest personal protection
gear available short of an actual mech. Most powered
armor requires at least a month of training before it can
be used effectively by any PC who hasn’t got a background involving such experience. Someone wearing
armor of this class is immune to primitive melee weapons, unarmed attacks, and any firearm or grenade-scale
explosive of TL3 or less.

Common Armor Varieties

Shields are an ancient yet extremely useful adjunct to
body armor. Primitive shields are usually of wood or
stretched hide, while more modern riot shields tend toward clear plastic. A force pavis is more effective, being
a small pretech force disc projector that can absorb all
manner of small arms fire. All shields require one free
hand to use effectively.

Shields grant a base AC to their user; 13 for primitive and riot shields, and 15 for a force pavis. If the
bearer’s AC is already equal or better, the shield simply
grants a +1 AC bonus. Primitive and riot shields are
ignored by all weapons that ignore primitive armor.
Aside from their AC benefit, a shield also renders
the bearer immune to the first instance of melee Shock
damage they take each round, assuming the shield is
effective against the weapon being used.
Warpaint is the common term for the bizarre combat fashions and scrap-built street harness of gangers,
cult enforcers, street toughs, and other marginal sorts
with little money but much need for protection. Most
warpaint is fashioned of scrounged scraps of TL4 materials that are exceptionally tough or rigid, filled out
with gang colors, body paint, intimidating tattoos, and
the usual threatening grimace. It is often exceedingly
impractical but inspirational to its wearer; an NPC in
warpaint that is meaningful to them gains a +1 Morale
bonus. Most warpaint is either pieced together over
years or taken from the dead. Actually purchasing a finished suit comes at the listed price, assuming someone
can be found willing to part with theirs.
An armored undersuit is a skin-tight bodysuit woven of advanced TL4 fibers with exceptional shock-activated rigidity and impact dispersion capabilities.
Transparent panels allow for it to be worn with almost
any outfit without drawing notice or being detected
without a close tactile examination.
Secure clothing comes in assorted styles and fashions ranging from casual street wear to haute couture.
Normal fabrics and components are replaced with light,
flexible armor components that are only slightly hindering to the wearer. Only close tactile examination
can distinguish secure clothing from ordinary couture.
A deflector array consists of several force field
nodes worn beneath ordinary clothing. The invisible
shield it produces flares only when dangerous energies
or impact is impending, glowing a brief, bright blue as
it deflects the attack.
Security armor is the ordinary working uniform of
most law enforcement officials and security personnel.
Various rigid plates and anti-ballistic panels provide
protection for the wearer at minimal extra weight.
An armored vacc suit has traded off some comfort
and flexibility for additional protective thickness. Aside
from functioning as a normal vacc suit, it has only half
the usual chance to tear when hit by an edged weapon
or suit ripper. The choice between armored or standard
suits is a common debate in spacer bars.
Woven body armor represents the best armor that a
TL3 world can manufacture, or an up-armored version
of security armor used by TL4 high-threat response
teams. The design is significantly more cumbersome,
but allows for multiple layers of protection.

ARMOR •65
Armor Type
Primitive Armor

Armor Class

Cost

Enc.

Tech Level

Shield
Leather jacks, thick hides, quilted armor
Cuirass, brigandine, linothorax, half-plate
Full plate, layered mail
Street Armor
Warpaint
Armored Undersuit
Secure Clothing
Armored Vacc Suit
Deflector Array
Combat Armor
Force Pavis
Security Armor
Woven Body Armor
Combat Field Uniform
Icarus Harness
Powered Armor
Vestimentum
Assault Suit
Storm Armor
Field Emitter Panoply

13/+1 bonus
13
15
17

10
10
50
100

2
1
1
2

0
0
1
1

12
13
13
13
18

300
600
300
400
30,000

0
0
1
2
0

